Sliding Block Puzzle AI

This project includes the implementation for a sliding block puzzle, sample
sliding block puzzles in '.txt' format, and several algorithms for
efficiently finding solutions to a generic puzzle. The solutions include A*,
breadth first search, depth first search, and iterative deepening search. 

Running this program
To run this program, run 'main.py' on its intended platform, Python 2.7.
'main.py' takes two inputs, the name of a text file containing the sliding
block puzzle to be attempted, and a string denoting which algorithm should
be used.

There are several example puzzles included with this program that it can be
tested on, please see the 'puzzles' folder.

The options for the second argument listed below
'bfs'   :  use breadth first search to solve the puzzle
'dfs'   :  use depth first search to solve the puzzle
'id'    :  use iterative deepening search to solve the puzzle
'astar' :  use an A* search to solve the puzzle

I've included an example command line executions of the code:
Unix: "python main.py puzzles/puzzle2.txt 'bfs'"


Mechanics
Sliding block puzzles must be loaded from a '.txt' file. Each text file must
only contain one puzzle. The first line of the file must include the
dimensions of the puzzle board. The following lines depict the actual
puzzle. 

'-1': denotes the goal space, when this is covered by the solution block the
   puzzle is complete
'0' : denotes an empty space
'1' : denotes a wall, which can not be occupied
'2' : denotes the solution block, which must be moved off of the board
'3'+: denotes an obstacle block, they are only distinguishable by having
   different numbers

Individual moves can be applied to change the position of one block by one
row or column. The entire block must be moved simultaneously, and all
destination spaces must be empty prior to the move. 


Layout

Algorithm file
The file: 'algorithms.py' includes only the core algorithms, all helper
functions are located in a separate file. The algorithm file includes: A*,
breadth first search, depth first search, and iterative deepening search. It
also includes a heuristic function which is utilized by the A* algorithm. 

Main file
The file: 'driver.py' contains the main function utilized by this project.
It has two inputs, one to specify the .txt file to be used as the puzzle,
and the other to specify the search strategy to utilize. 

Helper Function file
The file: 'helperFunct.py' includes helper functions and the sliding block
mechanics which are used by the 'algorithms.py' and 'driver.py' files. 


Output

The main file outputs a solution path and some search details after the
solution to a given puzzle is found. It also prints the final board
state to the console. 

Each of the algorithms in this project build a search tree while searching
for the solution. The "nodes explored" output refers to the total
number of nodes (as well as the total number of board states) that
have been added to the search tree. 

The "solution length" output refers to the number of moves it would take to
reach the final solution from the initial state.

The path is shown by listing the moves necessasry to go from the initial
state to the final state. Moves are displayed as a block number and
direction. Please note, the block number is the number after the state has
been normalized, so it can be a little tricky to follow


